#### Roxanna Barahona
##### HW Ch3

1. In general, why would you even want to join two (or more) tables together? This is a good time to
think about the nature of relational algebra.

- In the relational model, operations on relations are based on relational algebra and result in
a relation. Recall that a relation’s body is a set of tuples, and a set has no duplicates. Unlike the
relational model, which is based on mathematical set theory,
- You would join two or more tables together to compare and contrast data.

2. Describe in your own words the output from an inner join.
- An inner join applies a common value, between the
two input tables and filters rows based on any columns you choose to filter

3. Describe in your own words the output from an outer join.
- An outer join combines three phases—Cartesian Product, Filter,
and Add Outer Rows. It has two kinds of rows. An outer join returns both inner and outer rows.

4. Describe in your own words the output from an cross join.
- each row from an input gets matched with all the rows from the other. For example, a cross join will match the first row set with each row from the second row set

5. A convenient mnemonic for remembering the various joins is "Ohio." Why is this true?
- This is true ecause 'ohio 'has the letters that represents outer and inner

6. Give an example of a composite join.
- A composite join is simply a join where you need to match multiple attributes from each side. You need to join when a primary key–foreign key relationship is based on more than one attribute. You would also need a composite key and foreign keys.


7. What is the difference between the following two queries? The business problem is "How many orders do we have from each customer?""
- The difference is that the first query is using the count function by using the wildcard, select all. The second query is counting against a specific column in the orders table

================first query===============
SELECT C.custid, COUNT(*) AS numorders
FROM Sales.Customers AS C
LEFT OUTER JOIN Sales.Orders AS O
ON C.custid = O.custid
GROUP BY C.custid;
================second query===============
SELECT C.custid, COUNT(O.orderid) AS numorders
FROM Sales.Customers AS C
LEFT OUTER JOIN Sales.Orders AS O
ON C.custid = O.custid
GROUP BY C.custid;

8. What might be one reason the following query does not return the column custID in this query?

- One of the reasons that the following query does not return the column custID is because customers table was not joined. instead the from is pulling from the sales.customers as c rather than customers as c 

SELECT C.custid, C.companyname, O.orderid, O.orderdate
FROM Sales.Customers AS C
LEFT OUTER JOIN Sales.Orders AS O
ON C.custid = O.custid
WHERE O.orderdate >= '20160101';
