#### Roxanna Barahona
##### HW SQL Ch 4



1. In your own words, what is a subquery?
- A subquery is a query in which the result is by a parent query (or outer query).

2. In your own words, what is a self contained subquery?
- Normally a subquery is connected to other queries (such as the outer query), but a self-contained query does not depend on any tables, rows, or columns from that shared outer subquery.

3. In your own words, what is a correlated subquery?
- A correlated subquery is the opposite of a self-contained query because it is directly connected (correlated) to the outer table.

4. Give an example of a subquery that returns a single value. When would you use this kind of subquery?
- A scalar subquery is the kind that returns a single value. These queries have the potential of showing up anywhere in the outer query where a single-valued expression can occur like WHERE or Select
- you would do this when trying to query within a table against a value stored in the variable.

5. Give an example of a subquery that returns multiple values. When would you use this kind of subquery?
-
6. Give an example of a subquery that returns table values. When would you use this kind of subquery?
7. What does the exists predicate do? Give an example.
8. What happens if we use the not operator before a predicate? Give an example.
9. When you use exists or not exists with respect to a row in a database, does it return two or three
values? Explain your answer.
10. How would you use a subquery to calculate aggregates? For example, you want to calculate yearly
sales of a product, and you also want to keep a running sum of total sales. Explain how you would use
a subquery to do this
